start upgrade guide, and add pieces from LegolasFlux upgrade (#71)
beacon-biosignals/Legolas.jl: docs/src/upgrade.md

# Upgrading from Legolas v0.4 to v0.5

> This guide is incomplete; please add to it if you encounter items which would help other upgraders along their journey.

Author: how about this?
```suggestion
This guide is incomplete; please add to it if you encounter items which would help other upgraders along their journey.

See [here](https://github.com/beacon-biosignals/Legolas.jl/pull/54) for an example of a comprehensive log of changes from Legolas v0.4 to Legolas v0.5.
```

> This guide is incomplete; please add to it if you encounter items which would help other upgraders along their journey.

Reviewer: 🤔 but it's not an example of some other thing? it's the PR's changelog

## Some main changes to be aware of

> * In Legolas v0.4, type parameters were implicit in the row types; for example, a column `y::Real` in a `Legolas.@row` declaration would be represented by `y::T` with the constraint `T<:Real`, rather than using the abstract type `Real` as a type declaration for `y`. Now, all type parameters need to manually specified with the `y::(<:Real)` syntax in [`@version`](@ref).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In Legolas v0.4, every `Legolas.Row` field's type was available as a type parameter of `Legolas.Row`; for example, the type of a field `y` specified as `y::Real` in a `Legolas.@row` declaration would be surfaced like `Legolas.Row{..., NamedTuple{(...,:y,...),Tuple{...,typeof(y),...}}`. In Legolas v0.5, the schema version author controls which fields have their types surfaced as type parameters in Legolas-generated record types via the `field::(<:F)` syntax in [`@version`](@ref).
```

edit to be a bit more concrete / clearer

    * Additionally, to include type parameters associated to fields in a parent schema, they must be re-declared in the child schema. For example, the package LegolasFlux declares a `ModelV1` version with a field `weights::(<:Union{Missing,Weights})`. LegolasFlux includes an [example](https://github.com/beacon-biosignals/LegolasFlux.jl/blob/53c677848c6b65e5158ef2d43dd5f7eab174892e/examples/digits.jl#L78-L80) with a schema extension `DigitsRowV1` which extends `ModelV1`. This `@version` call must re-declare the field `weights` to be parametric in order for the `DigitsRowV1` struct to also have a type parameter for this field.

> * Constructors for structs generated by `@version` calls discard "extra" columns, whereas previously under Legolas v0.4, `@row`-generated constructors kept any "extra" columns. It may be advisable to add previously used "extra" columns into the schema itself (probably declared as `::Union{Missing,T}` to allow them to be missing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In Legolas v0.4,  `@row`-generated `Legolas.Row` constructors accepted and propagated any non-schema-required fields provided by the caller. In Legolas v0.5, `@version`-generated record type constructors will discard any non-schema-required fields provided by the caller. When upgrading code that formerly "implicitly extended" a given schema version by propagating non-required fields, it is advisable to instead explicitly declare a new extension of the schema version to capture the propagated fields as required fields; or, if it makes more sense for a given use case, one may instead define a new schema version that adds these propagated fields as required fields directly to the schema (likely declared as `::Union{Missing,T}` to allow them to be missing)
```

it's more ideal in most cases to convert "implicit extensions" to "explicit extensions"; and if not, adding new required fields necessitates a schema version bump

## Deserializing old tables with Legolas v0.5

> Generally, tables serialized with Legolas v0.4 can be de-serialized with Legolas v0.5, making it only a "code-breaking" change, rather than a "data-breaking" change. However, it is strongly suggested to have reference tests with checked in (pre-Legolas v0.5) serialized tables which are deserialized and verified during the tests, in order to be sure.

Author: ```suggestion
Generally, tables serialized with earlier versions of Legolas can be de-serialized with Legolas v0.5, making it only a "code-breaking" change, rather than a "data-breaking" change. However, it is strongly suggested to have reference tests with checked in (pre-Legolas v0.5) serialized tables which are deserialized and verified during the tests, in order to be sure.
```

> Additionally, tables with nested Legolas schemas (i.e. a row has a column whose elements are themselves Legolas rows) will need special handling to deserialize under Legolas v0.5. Recall that under Legolas v0.4, row types can contain arbitrary "extra" columns not specified in the schema. Under Legolas v0.5, their analog, namely structs created by the `@version` macro, only allow columns specified in their schema. Therefore, one must decide what to do with any "extra" columns when deserializing older tables. These columns can generally be handled in the constructor, as in [this LegolasFlux example](https://github.com/beacon-biosignals/LegolasFlux.jl/blob/53c677848c6b65e5158ef2d43dd5f7eab174892e/examples/digits.jl#L64-L84).

Reviewer 2: this example isn't really about handling extra columns right?  they'll still be discarded by the `DigitsModelV1` constructor.  AFAICT there isn't really a way to BOTH have nested row-struct-typed-fields in a schema AND support extra columns that might be present in that field's nested row serialized under old versions of Legolas.

Author: True, yeah. What I wanted to say was something like "you have to figure out what to do with them. There's a place you get to write code to do that, and it's in the constructor". And I guess hinting at you can do whatever you need to do there, e.g. add some weird `extras::NamedTuple` column to your schema and populate it this way, or throw an error and tell the user to manually do something, or warn or something, idk.

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, tables with nested Legolas schemas (i.e. a row has a column whose elements are themselves Legolas rows) will need special handling to deserialize under Legolas v0.5. Recall that under Legolas v0.4, row types can contain arbitrary "extra" columns not specified in the schema. Under Legolas v0.5, their analog, namely structs created by the `@version` macro, only allow columns specified in their schema. Therefore, one must decide what to do with any "extra" columns when deserializing older tables, and use the constructor to old Legolas rows to the new types. For example, [this LegolasFlux example](https://github.com/beacon-biosignals/LegolasFlux.jl/blob/53c677848c6b65e5158ef2d43dd5f7eab174892e/examples/digits.jl#L64-L84) uses a function `compat_config` to handle old Legolas rows, but does not add any handling for "extra" columns, which will be discarded if present. In that scenario, extra columns could be handled by throwing an error, a warning, or expanding the schema (e.g. with `extras::Union{Missing, NamedTuple}`).
```

> Additionally, tables with nested Legolas schemas (i.e. a row has a column whose elements are themselves Legolas rows) will need special handling to deserialize under Legolas v0.5. Recall that under Legolas v0.4, row types can contain arbitrary "extra" columns not specified in the schema. Under Legolas v0.5, their analog, namely structs created by the `@version` macro, only allow columns specified in their schema. Therefore, one must decide what to do with any "extra" columns when deserializing older tables, and use the constructor to old Legolas rows to the new types. For example, [this LegolasFlux example](https://github.com/beacon-biosignals/LegolasFlux.jl/blob/53c677848c6b65e5158ef2d43dd5f7eab174892e/examples/digits.jl#L64-L84) uses a function `compat_config` to handle old Legolas rows, but does not add any handling for "extra" columns, which will be discarded if present. In that scenario, extra columns could be handled by throwing an error, a warning, or expanding the schema (e.g. with `extras::Union{Missing, NamedTuple}`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, serialized Arrow tables containing nested Legolas-v0.4-defined `Legolas.Row` values (i.e. a table that contains a row that has a field that is, itself, a `Legolas.Row` value, or contains such values) require special handling to deserialize under Legolas v0.5, if you wish users to be able to deserialize them with `Legolas.read` using the Legolas-v0.5-ready version of your package. Note that these tables are still deserializable as plain Arrow tables regardless, so it may not be worthwhile to provide a bespoke deprecation/compatibility pathway in the  Legolas-v0.5-ready version package unless your use case merits it (i.e. the impact surface would be high for your package's users). 

If you would like to provide such a pathway, though: 

Recall that under Legolas v0.4, `@row`-generated `Legolas.Row` constructors may accept and propagate arbitrary non-schema-required fields, whereas Legolas v0.5's `@version`-generated record types may only contain schema-required fields. Therefore, one must decide what to do with any non-required fields present in serialized `Legolas.Row` values upon deserialization. A common approach is to implement a deprecation/compatibility pathway within the relevant surrounding `@version` declaration. For example, [this LegolasFlux example](https://github.com/beacon-biosignals/LegolasFlux.jl/blob/53c677848c6b65e5158ef2d43dd5f7eab174892e/examples/digits.jl#L64-L84) uses a function `compat_config` to handle old `Legolas.Row` values, but does not add any handling for non-required fields, which will be discarded if present. If one did not want non-required fields to be discarded, these fields could be handled by throwing an error or warning, or defining a schema version extension that captured them, or defining a new version of the relevant schema to capture them (e.g. adding a field like `extras::Union{Missing, NamedTuple}`).
```

# Upgrading from Legolas v0.4 to v0.5

This guide is incomplete; please add to it if you encounter items which would help other upgraders along their journey.

> See [here](https://github.com/beacon-biosignals/Legolas.jl/pull/54) for an example of a comprehensive log of changes from Legolas v0.4 to Legolas v0.5.

Author: ```suggestion
See [here](https://github.com/beacon-biosignals/Legolas.jl/pull/54) for a comprehensive log of changes from Legolas v0.4 to Legolas v0.5.
```
